AcraWriter building + client-side integration with AcraWriter+Connector (#62)
cossacklabs/product-docs: acra/configuring-maintaining/installing/building-acrawriter.md

### Building AcraWriter for C++

> Before building AcraWriter for C++, make sure you've installed [Themis as system library]({{< ref "themis/installation/" >}})!

#### Dependencies

Additionally, install [ThemisPP (Themis C++ wrapper) as system library](https://github.com/cossacklabs/themis/wiki/CPP-Howto) from Themis source folder:

```bash
cd themis
make themispp_install
cd -
```

#### Installation

Grab `acrawriter.hpp` source file and add it to your project. Link `themis` and `crypto` libs.

Example of CMake file:

```bash
project(my_project)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 14)

//path to acrawriter.hpp file
set(ACRAWRITER ../../wrappers/cpp)
include_directories(${ACRAWRITER})

set(
    SOURCE_FILES
    ${ACRAWRITER}/acrawriter.hpp
    main.cpp
    )

add_executable(my_project ${SOURCE_FILES})
target_link_libraries(my_project themis crypto)

```

#### C++ examples and tests

See CLion project example in [examples/cpp](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/tree/master/examples/cpp) for generating AcraStruct with and without Zones, and tests.

### Building AcraWriter for iOS

#### Installation via CocoaPods

Update your Podfile with:

```bash
pod 'acrawriter'
```

> AcraWriter for iOS supports bitcode and has Themis (and OpenSSL) as dependencies.

Reviewer: Initially I was thinking that may be it was a typo for Java/Scala "bytecode" - but it is not the case for iOS. So, got it. In Apple world they have bitcode. Thanks for explanation!

#### iOS examples and tests

Check out the iOS project example using Objective-C in [examples/objc](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/tree/master/examples/objc) for generation of an AcraStruct with and without Zones and decrypting them using AcraTranslator via HTTP API.

> Check out another iOS project example using Swift in [examples/swift](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/tree/master/examples/swift) for generation of an AcraStruct with and without Zones.

Reviewer: May be it should be stated in doc explicitly, in such case? - e.g. for decryption please use some other language example of AcraTranslator service with HTTP API

### Building AcraWriter for Android

#### Installation

> Installation via maven: AcraWriter is placed into our [bintray](https://bintray.com/cossacklabs/maven/acrawriter).

Author: Nice catch... as I see, we have open task for migration from bintray to maven T1891... I will temporary comment parts related to building for android until we migrate it

---
title: Building and installing AcraWriter
bookCollapseSection: true
---

> ## Building AcraWriter for your language

Author: changed to `installing AcraWriter for ${language}` for languages that have package manager and left `Building` for other (php/c++)

### Building AcraWriter for PHP

> Before building AcraWriter for PHP, make sure you've installed [Themis as system library]({{< ref "themis/installation/" >}})!

#### Installation

```bash
sudo apt install php5 php5-dev
cd themis
sudo make phpthemis_install
# extension=phpthemis.so
sudo nano /etc/php5/cli/php.ini
# check that extension is available
php --ri phpthemis
cd -
```
#### Testing
```bash
php acra/wrappers/php/test.php
```
Output
```
work
```
Now use `acra/wrappers/php/acrawriter.php` in your project. In future
`acrawriter` will contain composer.json and will be added to packagist.

#### Examples
[With Zones](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/blob/master/examples/php/example_with_zone.php) and [without Zones](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/blob/master/examples/php/example.php)

### Building AcraWriter for Go

> Before building AcraWriter for Go, make sure you've installed [Themis as system library]({{< ref "themis/installation/" >}})!

#### Installation
```bash
sudo apt install golang
# leave your GOPATH or set some
export GOPATH=$HOME/work
go get github.com/cossacklabs/acra/acra-writer

> ```   

Reviewer 2: Same as elsewhere, I don't think users need to be taught here how to install Go and configure their GOPATH. Just `go get` should be enough (as a second item after a link to GoThemis installation instructions).

#### Testing
```
go test github.com/cossacklabs/acra/acra-writer
```
Output
```
ok  	github.com/cossacklabs/acra/acra-writer	0.112s
```

#### Examples
[With Zones](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/blob/master/examples/golang/src/example_with_zone/example_with_zone.go) and [without Zones](https://github.com/cossacklabs/acra/blob/master/examples/golang/src/example/example.go)

### Building AcraWriter for C++

> Before building AcraWriter for C++, make sure you've installed [Themis as system library]({{< ref "themis/installation/" >}})!

#### Dependencies

Additionally, install [ThemisPP (Themis C++ wrapper) as system library](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/languages/cpp/installation/) from Themis source folder:

```bash
cd themis
make themispp_install
cd -

> ```

Reviewer 2: There are ThemisPP packages, you can just defer that to Themis documentation.

#### Installation

Grab `acrawriter.hpp` source file and add it to your project. Link `themis` and `crypto` libs.

Example of CMake file:

```bash
project(my_project)
set(CMAKE_CXX_STANDARD 14)

//path to acrawriter.hpp file
set(ACRAWRITER ../../wrappers/cpp)
include_directories(${ACRAWRITER})

set(
    SOURCE_FILES
    ${ACRAWRITER}/acrawriter.hpp
    main.cpp
    )

add_executable(my_project ${SOURCE_FILES})
target_link_libraries(my_project themis crypto)

> ```

Reviewer 2: I think this can be just replaced with a snippet of some C++ code, showcasing AcraWriter API, and deferring AcraWriter integration into the build system to CLion example project. Or just link to the project, like it's done for iOS, if the code is quite involved there.

#### Installation

> Install [phpthemis extension]({{< ref "/themis/languages/php/installation.md#building-latest-version-from-source" >}})
> 
> {{< hint info >}}
> AcraWriter for PHP is currently not packaged because requires a binary extension. It is available only in source form and supports only PHP 5 & 7 versions
> {{< /hint >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< hint info >}}
AcraWriter is currently not packaged for PHP.
It is available in source form and requires PHPThemis extension to be installed.
PHP versions 5.6, 7.0–7.2 are supported.
{{< /hint >}}

Please follow [PHPThemis installation instructions]({{< ref "/themis/languages/php/installation.md" }}).
```

AcraWriter *can* be packaged just like PHPThemis is packaged. The only reason it's not packaged is the maintainer capacity.

#### Dependencies

> Install [ThemisPP (Themis C++ wrapper) as system library](https://docs.cossacklabs.com/themis/languages/cpp/installation/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Install [ThemisPP (Themis C++ wrapper) as system library]({{< ref "/themis/languages/cpp/installation.md" >}})
```
